added how to guides on: 1. assigning more than four states to data 2.… (#4087)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/resources/how-to-guides/state-changes-across-task-executions.md

---
title: State changes across task executions
description: >
  This how-to guide walks you through how to monitor state changes across task executions, so you miss changes across subsequent task runs. 
menu:
  resources:
    parent: How-to Guides
weight: 112
date: 2021-06-03
series: [Tasks]
metadata: [Tasks]
---
## Problem

Users want to be able to detect changes in a state across their time series data. They use a task to assign a level to their data. They want to be able to detect and alert state changes across those task executions so they don’t miss state changes.

## Solution 1

> Assign levels to the data based on thresholds explicitly. This approach is the most straightforward for users who have never written a custom check before or used the monitor package. Solution 2 will use the monitor package. For this example we’ll be using the telegram flux package to send alerts to telegram. You can use any other endpoint. 

Author: I was going to ask about this. I'm glad we're in agreement. Thank you.

### Solution 1 Advantages
The easiest to understand for Flux users who have never written a task with the monitor package. 

### Solution 1 Disadvantages
You have to explicitly define your thresholds (potentially more code).

### Solution 1 Overview
Create a task where you:

1. Boilerplate. Import packages and define task options. 
2. Query your data.
3. Assign states to your data based on thresholds. Store this data in a variable, i.e. “states”.
4. Write the “states” to a bucket.
5. Find the latest value from the previous task run and store it in a variable “last_state_previous_task”.
6. Union “states” and “last_state_previous_task”. Store this data in a variable “unioned_states”.
7. Discover state changes in “unioned_states”. Store this data in a variable “state_changes”.

> 8. Notify on state changes that span across the last two tasks to catch any state changes that occur across task executions.  

Author: I think it's helpful to have more than less, but I'm happy to remove it if you think that's better.

    ```

    Where `last_state_previous_task` might look like: 

      | measurement  | tagKey1   | _field    | _value | _level | _time |  
      | ------------ | --------- | --------- | ------ | ------ | ----- |
      | _measurement | tagValue1 | fieldKey1 | 55.0   | "crit" | time0 | 

6. Union “states” and “last_state_previous_task”. Store this data in a variable “unioned_states”.

    ```js
    unioned_states = union(tables: [states, last_state_previous_task])

    // use the sort() function to guarantee that you preserve the time order

    |> sort(columns: ["_time"], desc: true)
    ```

    Where `unioned_states` might look like: 

    | measurement  | tagKey1   | _field    | _value | _level | _time |  
    | ------------ | --------- | --------- | ------ | ------ | ----- |
    | _measurement | tagValue1 | fieldKey1 | 55.0   | "crit" | time0 | 
    | _measurement | tagValue1 | fieldKey1 | 30.0   | "ok"   | time1 | 
    | _measurement | tagValue1 | fieldKey1 | 50.0   | "crit" | time2 | 

7. Discover state changes in “unioned_states”. Store this data in a variable “state_changes”.

    ```js
    state_changes = unioned_states 
    |> monitor.stateChangesOnly()
    ```

>     Where `state_changes` might look like: 
>     | measurement  | tagKey1   | _field    | _value | _level | _time |  
>     | ------------ | --------- | --------- | ------ | ------ | ----- |
>     | _measurement | tagValue1 | fieldKey1 | 30.0   | "ok"   | time1 | 
>     | _measurement | tagValue1 | fieldKey1 | 50.0   | "crit" | time2 | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Where `state_changes` might look like:

    | _measurement        | tagKey1           | _field        | _value | _level | _time                |
    | :------------------ | :---------------- | :------------ | -----: | :----- | :------------------- |
    | example-measurement | example-tag-value | example-field |   30.0 | ok     | 2022-01-01T00:00:00Z |
    | example-measurement | example-tag-value | example-field |   50.0 | crit   | 2022-01-01T00:01:00Z |
```

> 8.  Notify on state changes that span across the last two tasks to catch any state changes that occur across task executions.  

Reviewer: Not sure if this step is needed in this guide, but I think we can reference sending notifications (I'm working on a set of docs that walks through sending notifications for each supported endpoint). But you can leave it in if you want.

Author: I think it's helpful to have a complete example so users don't have to navigate to another page to accomplish their goal.

    ```js

>     state_changes = data
> 
>     |> map(fn: (r) => ({ _value: telegram.message(token: telegram_token, channel: telegram_channel_ID , text:  "state change at ${r._value} at ${r._time}"  )}))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    state_changes =
        data
            |> map(
                fn: (r) =>
                    ({
                        _value:
                            telegram.message(
                                token: telegram_token,
                                channel: telegram_channel_ID,
                                text: "state change at ${r._value} at ${r._time}",
                            ),
                    }),
            )
```

    ```

>     Where the alerts received on telegram might look like: 
>     `state change at 30.0 at time1` and `state change at 50.0 at time2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Using the unioned data, the following alerts would be sent to Telegram: 
    
    - `state change at 30.0 at 2022-01-01T00:00:00Z`
    - `state change at 50.0 at 2022-01-01T00:01:00Z`
```

---
title: Track state changes across task executions
description: >
  Learn how to monitor state changes across task executions, so you don't miss changes across subsequent task runs. 
menu:
  resources:
    parent: How-to guides
weight: 103
---

## Problem

It's common to use [InfluxDB tasks](/influxdb/cloud/process-data/) to evaluate and assign states to your time series data and then detect changes in those states. Tasks process data in batches, but what happens if there is a state change across the batch boundary? The task won't recognize it without knowing the final state of the previous task execution. This guide walks through creating a task that assigns a state to rows and then uses results from the previous task execution to detect any state changes across the batch boundary so you don’t miss any state changes.

## Solution 

> Assign levels to the data based on thresholds explicitly. This approach is the most straightforward for users who have never written a custom check before or used the monitor package. 
> 
> ### Solution Advantages
> The easiest to understand for Flux users who have never written a task with the monitor package. 
> 
> ### Solution Disadvantages
> You have to explicitly define your thresholds (potentially more code).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explicitly assign levels to your data based on thresholds.

### Solution Advantages
This is the easiest solution to understand if you have never written a task with the [`monitor` package](/flux/v0.x/stdlib/influxdata/influxdb/monitor/). 

### Solution Disadvantages
You have to explicitly define your thresholds, which potentially requires more code.
```

    import "influxdata/influxdb/monitor"

    option task = {name: "State changes across tasks", every: 30m, offset: 5m}

    telegram_token = secrets.get(key: "telegram_token")
    telegram_channel_ID = secrets.get(key: "telegram_channel_ID")
    ```

2. Query the data you want to monitor.

    ```js
    data = from(bucket: "example-bucket")
        // Query for data from the last successful task run or from the 1 every duration ago.
        // This ensures that you won’t miss any data.
        |> range(start: tasks.lastSuccess(orTime: -task.every))
        |> filter(fn: (r) => r._measurement == "example-measurement")
        |> filter(fn: (r) => r.tagKey1 == "example-tag-value")
        |> filter(fn: (r) => r._field == "example-field")
    ```

    Where `data` might look like:

    | _measurement        | tagKey1           | _field        | _value | _time                |
    | :------------------ | :---------------- | :------------ | -----: | :------------------- |
    | example-measurement | example-tag-value | example-field |   30.0 | 2022-01-01T00:00:00Z |
    | example-measurement | example-tag-value | example-field |   50.0 | 2022-01-01T00:00:00Z |

> 3. Assign states to your data based on thresholds. Store this data in a variable, i.e. “states”. To simplify this example, there are only two states: "ok" and "crit." Store states in the `_level` column (required by the monitor package). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Assign states to your data based on thresholds. Store this data in a variable, i.e. “states”. To simplify this example, there are only two states: "ok" and "crit." Store states in the `_level` column (required by the `monitor` package). 
```

5. Find the latest value from the previous task run and store it in a variable “last_state_previous_task”,

    ```js
    last_state_previous_task =
        from(bucket: "example-bucket")
            |> range(start: date.sub(d: task.every, from: tasks.lastSuccess(orTime: -task.every))
            |> filter(fn: (r) => r._measurement == "example-measurement")
            |> filter(fn: (r) => r.tagKey == "example-tag-value")
            |> filter(fn: (r) => r._field == "example-field")
            |> last() 
    ```

    Where `last_state_previous_task` might look like: 

    | _measurement        | tagKey1           | _field        | _value | _level | _time                |
    | :------------------ | :---------------- | :------------ | -----: | :----- | :------------------- |
    | example-measurement | example-tag-value | example-field |   55.0 | crit   | 2021-12-31T23:59:00Z |

6. Union “states” and “last_state_previous_task”. Store this data in a variable “unioned_states”.

    ```js
    unioned_states = union(tables: [states, last_state_previous_task])

    // use the sort() function to guarantee that you preserve the time order

    |> sort(columns: ["_time"], desc: true)

>     ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
6. Union “states” and “last_state_previous_task”. Store this data in a variable “unioned_states”. Use [`sort()`](/flux/v0.x/stdlib/universe/sort/) to ensure rows are ordered by time.

    ```js
    unioned_states =
        union(tables: [states, last_state_previous_task])
            |> sort(columns: ["_time"], desc: true)
    ```
~~~

    Where `unioned_states` might look like: 

    | _measurement        | tagKey1           | _field        | _value | _level | _time                |
    | :------------------ | :---------------- | :------------ | -----: | :----- | :------------------- |
    | example-measurement | example-tag-value | example-field |   55.0 | crit   | 2021-12-31T23:59:00Z |
    | example-measurement | example-tag-value | example-field |   30.0 | ok     | 2022-01-01T00:00:00Z |
    | example-measurement | example-tag-value | example-field |   50.0 | crit   | 2022-01-01T00:01:00Z |

7. Use [`monitor.stateChangesOnly()`](/flux/v0.x/stdlib/influxdata/influxdb/monitor/statechangesonly/) to return only rows where the state changed in “unioned_states”. Store this data in a variable “state_changes”.

    ```js
    state_changes = unioned_states 
        |> monitor.stateChangesOnly()

>     ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
7. Use [`monitor.stateChangesOnly()`](/flux/v0.x/stdlib/influxdata/influxdb/monitor/statechangesonly/) to return only rows where the state changed in “unioned_states”. Store this data in a variable, “state_changes”.

    ```js
    state_changes =
        unioned_states 
            |> monitor.stateChangesOnly()
    ```
~~~
